README.md, before:

OpenSim GUI [![Appveyor build status][buildstatus_image_appveyor]][appveyorci]
===========
OpenSim is software that lets users develop models of musculoskeletal
structures and create dynamic simulations of movement. 

This repository contains the source code for OpenSim's Java GUI, and does *not*
include source code for the
[OpenSim core API](https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core).

**NOTE: This repository contains version 4.0 GUI development and
cannot be used to build OpenSim 3.x or earlier.**

**NOTE: Due to the small development team working on the GUI, we do not provide
support for building or altering the OpenSim GUI source code.**

More information can be found at our websites
 - [OpenSim website](http://opensim.stanford.edu)
 - [SimTK project website](https://simtk.org/home/opensim)


Licensing
---------
The OpenSim GUI uses the open source **Apache License 2.0** (see LICENSE.txt in
this directory), making it suitable for commercial, government,
academic, and personal use.

Software dependencies that are copied into this repository have the following
licenses:

 - [Jython](http://www.jython.org/) Python Software Foundation License Version 2
 - [JFreeChart](http://www.jfree.org/jfreechart/) LGPL
 - TODO VTK

The following dependencies are not copied into the repository (some are
incorporated using git submodules):

 - [NetBeans Platform](https://netbeans.org) CDDL
 - [JxBrowser](https://www.teamdev.com/jxbrowser) TODO
 - [three.js](https://threejs.org) MIT
 - TODO opensim-visualizer is using template license.
 - TODO OpenSim API

Models and examples distributed with our source code often have their own
custom licenses. 

Funding
-------
The OpenSim project has received funding from the following grants and
contracts:

 - United States National Institutes of Health (NIH)
    - Simulation of Biological Structures (Simbios; U54 GM072970)
    - Simulation in Rehabilitation Research (NCSRR; R24 HD065690, P2C HD065690)
    - Mobilize Center (U54 EB020405)
 - United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)
    - Warrior Web (W911QX-12-C-0018)

How to acknowledge us
---------------------
Acknowledging the OpenSim project helps us and helps you. It allows us to track
our impact, which is essential for securing funding to improve the software and
provide support to our users (you).

If you use the OpenSim GUI, you must acknowledge the OpenSim project where
appropriate, by citing the following paper. If you only use the OpenSim API, you
are not required to acknowledge us, but we would be extremely grateful if you
did so anyway.

Delp SL, Anderson FC, Arnold AS, Loan P, Habib A, John CT, Guendelman E, Thelen
DG. OpenSim: Open-source Software to Create and Analyze Dynamic Simulations of
Movement. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. (2007)

If you use plugins, models, or other components contributed by your fellow
researchers, you must acknowledge their work as described in the license that
accompanies each of these files. 


Building from the source code
-----------------------------

Currently, we only provide instructions for **Windows**. It *is* possible to
build and run the GUI on **OSX** and **Linux**; though it is not thoroughly
tested on these platforms. We will write instructions for OSX and Linux in the
future; for now, you can follow the Windows instructions as a rough guide.

See the [OpenSim Confluence Wiki](http://simtk-confluence.stanford.edu:8080/display/OpenSim/Building+OpenSim+from+Source)
for additional information.

#### Get the dependencies

* **operating system**: Windows 7, 8, or 10.
* **OpenSim core API**: [OpenSim-Core master branch](
  https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core#on-windows-using-visual-studio)
  * You must build the Java Bindings (CMake variable `BUILD_JAVA_WRAPPING=ON`).
* **Java Development Kit**: [JDK](
  http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) >= 1.7.
* **Java Integrated Development Environment (IDE)**: [NetBeans](
  http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) 8.0.2.
  * At this link, you can download a version of NetBeans that comes with a JDK.
* **Command-line build tool for Java**:
  [Ant](http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi) >= 1.9.6.
  * You can use the Ant that comes with NetBeans (e.g.,
    `C:/Program Files/NetBeans 8.0.2/extide/ant/bin/ant.exe`).
* **Command-line build tool for C++**:
    [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/) >= 3.1.3
  * We do not use CMake to build any C++ code, but to copy files and run
    **Ant**.
* **C++ compiler**: [Visual Studio 2015](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  * Again, we won't build any C++ code; CMake needs this to do its job.

You can obtain some of these dependencies using the Chocolatey package manager.
Get [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/), open a new **PowerShell** window
(run as Administrator), and run the following command:

    choco install jdk8 netbeans-jee ant

#### Configure and generate Visual Studio project files

Invoke **CMake** with the root of this repository as the source directory,
and set the following CMake variables:
  * `OpenSim_DIR`: The directory containing `OpenSimConfig.cmake`.
    * Might look something like `.../opensim-core/cmake`.
  * `Simbody_DIR`: The directory containing `SimbodyConfig.cmake`.
    * Might look something like `.../opensim_dependencies_install/simbody/cmake`.
  * `Ant_EXECUTABLE`: If you want to use the Ant that comes with NetBeans, specify
    something like `C:/Program Files/NetBeans 8.0.2/extide/ant/bin/ant.exe`.

Use the CMake GUI to *Configure* and *Generate* project files for the *Visual Studio 14 2015* generator.

#### Open the OpenSim GUI project in NetBeans

Open **NetBeans** and open the NetBeans project in the repository located at
`Gui/opensim`. Even if you don't plan to use the NetBeans IDE to build the GUI,
this step is necessary to generate configuration files. The alternative is
to run Ant with the following additional command-line flags:

```
-Dnbplatform.default.netbeans.dest.dir="C:/Program Files/NetBeans 8.0.2" 
-Dnbplatform.default.harness.dir="C:/Program Files/NetBeans 8.0.2/harness"
```

We use these additional flags in our automated builds in [AppVeyor][appveyorci].

#### CMake targets and packaging the distribution

The Visual Studio "solution" you generated earlier provides the
following targets (none of which actually compile C++ code):
 * **CopyOpenSimCore**: copies `.java` files from OpenSim-Core to GUI folder(s).
   You should run this target even if you do not plan on packaging the
   distribution. It is necessary for making sure you are using the correct
   OpenSim-Core code.
 * Targets for packaging the OpenSim distribution:
   * **PrepareInstaller**: This runs the ant build script of GUI and generates
     a platform-specific installer under `Gui/opensim/dist` folder.
   * **CopyJRE**: Copies the runtime JRE to the install directory.
   * **CopyModels**: If you have the `opensim-models` repository and set the
     CMake variable `MODELS_REPO`, this copies standard models and the
     Geometry folder to the install folder.

If you plan to make changes to the GUI, you can now continue to use NetBeans to
edit the Java source code and build and run the GUI.


[buildstatus_image_appveyor]: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/7irl68e7da8ryc38/branch/master?svg=true
[appveyorci]: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/opensim-org/opensim-gui/branch/master

Commit message:

First pass at complying with third party licenses.

README.md, after:

OpenSim GUI [![Appveyor build status][buildstatus_image_appveyor]][appveyorci]
===========
OpenSim is software that lets users develop models of musculoskeletal
structures and create dynamic simulations of movement. 

This repository contains the source code for OpenSim's Java GUI, and does *not*
include source code for the
[OpenSim core API](https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core).

**NOTE: This repository contains version 4.0 GUI development and
cannot be used to build OpenSim 3.x or earlier.**

**NOTE: Due to the small development team working on the GUI, we do not provide
support for building or altering the OpenSim GUI source code.**

More information can be found at our websites
 - [OpenSim website](http://opensim.stanford.edu)
 - [SimTK project website](https://simtk.org/home/opensim)


Licensing
---------
The OpenSim GUI uses the open source **Apache License 2.0** (see LICENSE.txt in
this directory), making it suitable for commercial, government,
academic, and personal use.

Third-party components have their own licenses; see LICENSE.txt, NOTICE.txt, and our
[Acknowledgements webpage](https://simtk-confluence.stanford.edu/display/OpenSim/Acknowledgements)
for more information.

The OpenSim GUI's visualizer uses
[JxBrowser](https://www.teamdev.com/jxbrowser), which is a proprietary
software. The use of JxBrowser is governed by [JxBrowser Product Licence
Agreement](http://www.teamdev.com/jxbrowser-licence-agreement). If you would
like to use JxBrowser in your development, please contact TeamDev.


Funding
-------
The OpenSim project has received funding from the following grants and
contracts:

 - United States National Institutes of Health (NIH)
    - Simulation of Biological Structures (Simbios; U54 GM072970)
    - Simulation in Rehabilitation Research (NCSRR; R24 HD065690, P2C HD065690)
    - Mobilize Center (U54 EB020405)
 - United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)
    - Warrior Web (W911QX-12-C-0018)


How to acknowledge us
---------------------
Acknowledging the OpenSim project helps us and helps you. It allows us to track
our impact, which is essential for securing funding to improve the software and
provide support to our users (you). If you use OpenSim, we would be extremely
grateful if you acknowledge us by citing the following paper.

Delp SL, Anderson FC, Arnold AS, Loan P, Habib A, John CT, Guendelman E, Thelen
DG. OpenSim: Open-source Software to Create and Analyze Dynamic Simulations of
Movement. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. (2007)

If you use plugins, models, or other components contributed by your fellow
researchers, you must acknowledge their work as described in the license that
accompanies each of these files. 


Building from the source code
-----------------------------

Currently, we only provide instructions for **Windows**. It *is* possible to
build and run the GUI on **OSX** and **Linux**; though it is not thoroughly
tested on these platforms. We will write instructions for OSX and Linux in the
future; for now, you can follow the Windows instructions as a rough guide.

See the [OpenSim Confluence Wiki](http://simtk-confluence.stanford.edu:8080/display/OpenSim/Building+OpenSim+from+Source)
for additional information.

#### Get the dependencies

* **operating system**: Windows 7, 8, or 10.
* **OpenSim core API**: [OpenSim-Core master branch](
  https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core#on-windows-using-visual-studio)
  * You must build the Java Bindings (CMake variable `BUILD_JAVA_WRAPPING=ON`).
* **Java Development Kit**: [JDK](
  http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) >= 1.7.
* **Java Integrated Development Environment (IDE)**: [NetBeans](
  http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) 8.0.2.
  * At this link, you can download a version of NetBeans that comes with a JDK.
* **Command-line build tool for Java**:
  [Ant](http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi) >= 1.9.6.
  * You can use the Ant that comes with NetBeans (e.g.,
    `C:/Program Files/NetBeans 8.0.2/extide/ant/bin/ant.exe`).
* **Command-line build tool for C++**:
    [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/) >= 3.1.3
  * We do not use CMake to build any C++ code, but to copy files and run
    **Ant**.
* **C++ compiler**: [Visual Studio 2015](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  * Again, we won't build any C++ code; CMake needs this to do its job.

You can obtain some of these dependencies using the Chocolatey package manager.
Get [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/), open a new **PowerShell** window
(run as Administrator), and run the following command:

    choco install jdk8 netbeans-jee ant

#### Configure and generate Visual Studio project files

Invoke **CMake** with the root of this repository as the source directory,
and set the following CMake variables:
  * `OpenSim_DIR`: The directory containing `OpenSimConfig.cmake`.
    * Might look something like `.../opensim-core/cmake`.
  * `Simbody_DIR`: The directory containing `SimbodyConfig.cmake`.
    * Might look something like `.../opensim_dependencies_install/simbody/cmake`.
  * `Ant_EXECUTABLE`: If you want to use the Ant that comes with NetBeans, specify
    something like `C:/Program Files/NetBeans 8.0.2/extide/ant/bin/ant.exe`.

Use the CMake GUI to *Configure* and *Generate* project files for the *Visual Studio 14 2015* generator.

#### Open the OpenSim GUI project in NetBeans

Open **NetBeans** and open the NetBeans project in the repository located at
`Gui/opensim`. Even if you don't plan to use the NetBeans IDE to build the GUI,
this step is necessary to generate configuration files. The alternative is
to run Ant with the following additional command-line flags:

```
-Dnbplatform.default.netbeans.dest.dir="C:/Program Files/NetBeans 8.0.2" 
-Dnbplatform.default.harness.dir="C:/Program Files/NetBeans 8.0.2/harness"
```

We use these additional flags in our automated builds in [AppVeyor][appveyorci].

#### CMake targets and packaging the distribution

The Visual Studio "solution" you generated earlier provides the
following targets (none of which actually compile C++ code):
 * **CopyOpenSimCore**: copies `.java` files from OpenSim-Core to GUI folder(s).
   You should run this target even if you do not plan on packaging the
   distribution. It is necessary for making sure you are using the correct
   OpenSim-Core code.
 * Targets for packaging the OpenSim distribution:
   * **PrepareInstaller**: This runs the ant build script of GUI and generates
     a platform-specific installer under `Gui/opensim/dist` folder.
   * **CopyJRE**: Copies the runtime JRE to the install directory.
   * **CopyModels**: If you have the `opensim-models` repository and set the
     CMake variable `MODELS_REPO`, this copies standard models and the
     Geometry folder to the install folder.

If you plan to make changes to the GUI, you can now continue to use NetBeans to
edit the Java source code and build and run the GUI.


[buildstatus_image_appveyor]: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/7irl68e7da8ryc38/branch/master?svg=true
[appveyorci]: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/opensim-org/opensim-gui/branch/master
